Please answer the below Data Structures questions:

Why do we need Data Structures?
ANSWER:  Data Structures are used in computing to make it easy to locate and retrieve information.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
ANSWER:  Insertion: Insertion means addition of a new data element in a Data Structures. Deletion: Deletion means removal of a data element from a Data Structures if it is found.

List out the areas in which Data Structures are applied extensively?
ANSWER:  Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical analysis package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence, and Simulation.

What is an Array?
ANSWER:  Java Array is an object which contains elements of a similar data type.

What is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
ANSWER:  The difference between Array and ArrayList in Java is that Array is a fixed length Data Structures while ArrayList is a variable length Collection class .i.e. you can add elements to ArrayList anytime but you can’t do that to an Array.

What is LinkedList?
ANSWER:  A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations. The elements in a linked list are linked using pointers as shown in the below image:
In simple words, a linked list consists of nodes where each node contains a data field and a reference(link) to the next node in the list.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
ANSWER:  Basically, an Array is a set of similar data objects stored in sequential memory locations under a common heading or a variable name; while a linked list is a Data Structures which contains a sequence of the elements where each element is linked to its next element.

What is a Queue?
ANSWER:  A Queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order is First In First Out (FIFO). A good example of a queue is any queue of consumers for a resource where the consumer that came first is served first. The difference between stacks and queues is in removing. In a stack we remove the item the most recently added; in a queue, we remove the item the least recently added.

What is stack?
ANSWER:  Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order may be LIFO(Last In First Out) or FILO(First In Last Out).

What are FIFO and LIFO?
ANSWER: First In First Out  & First In Last Out

What is the order of complexity?
ANSWER:  Time Complexity measures the time taken for running an algorithm and it is commonly used to count the number of elementary operations performed by the algorithm to improve the performance.

What is the best case to search an element from an Array?
ANSWER:  Given an Array of n distinct integers and an element x. Search the element x in the Array using a minimum number of comparisons.
Any sort of comparison will contribute 1 to the count of comparisons.

What is the worst case to search an element from an Array?
ANSWER:  The worst case for this algorithm will be if the element we are searching for is the last element in the Array.

What is a tree in Data Structures?
ANSWER:  A Tree is a non-linear Data Structures where data objects are organized in terms of hierarchical relationships.

What is graph in Data Structures?
ANSWER:  A graph is a Data Structures that has two types of elements, vertices and edges.
What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
ANSWER:  Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications, as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones. ... HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.

What are the major Data Structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
ANSWER:   1. RDBMS Array (i.e. Array of structures)
    2. Network data model Graph
    3. Hierarchical data model Trees.

How HashMap works in Java?
ANSWER:  HashMap in Java works on hashing principle.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in Java? When it occurs?
ANSWER:  ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access an Array element with an illegal index.
This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the Array.


What are the different ways of copying an Array into another Array?
ANSWER:  Arrays.copyOf() method to copy an Array in Java.

What is the difference between an Array and a LinkedList?
ANSWER:  The major difference between Array and Linked list regards to their structure. Arrays are index based Data Structures where each element is associated with an index. On the other hand, Linked list relies on references where each node consists of the data and the references to the previous and next element.

What is DFS and BFS?
ANSWER:  The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching a node in a graph.
BFS stands for Breadth First Search is a vertex based technique for finding the shortest path in a graph. It uses a Queue data structure which follows first in first out. In BFS, one vertex is selected at a time when it is visited and marked then its adjacent are visited and stored in the queue. It is slower than DFS.
DFS stands for Depth First Search is an edge based technique. It uses the Stack data structure, performs two stages, first visited vertices are pushed into stack and second if there are no vertices then visited vertices are popped.


What is Recursion?
ANSWER:  Recursion is a common method of simplifying a problem into subproblems of the same type. This is called divide and conquer technique.

What are linear and non linear Data Structures?
ANSWER:  The linear and non-linear Data Structures is the sub classification of the Data Structures which comes under the
Non-primitive Data Structures. The crucial difference between them is that the linear Data Structures arranges the data into a sequence and follow some sort of order. Whereas, the non-linear Data Structures does not organize the data in a sequential manner.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
ANSWER:  Big O specifically describes the worst-case scenario, and can be used to describe the execution time required or the space used (e.g. in memory or on disk) by an algorithm.
